RECEP ADIYAMAN, PHD
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER
Structural Bioinformatics Scientist / Protein Structure and Drug Design Researcher
Career Summary:
●​ 2023-Present Collaborative Researcher, Instadeep, London,UK
Development of the Protein Structure Prediction Pipeline for Structural
Immunology
●​ 2020-Present Research Fellow, McGuffin Lab, University of Reading, UK
Improvement of the IntFOLD server for 3D protein model prediction,
including quality assessment, refinement, ligand binding site prediction,
disordered region identification, and protein-protein interactions.
●​ 2016-2020
PhD Studentship, McGuffin Lab, University of Reading, UK
​
​
​
Refinement of protein 3D structures and ligand binding sites.
Instadeep​

​

​

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
​
​
​
​
​
​

​

2023-Present

Collaborative Researcher (Part-Time) in Industry Setting, focused on the development of a protein
structure prediction pipeline for structural immunology, in collaboration with BioNTech to support
cancer vaccine design. This project combines experimental and computational immunology to
enhance personalized vaccine target identification and optimization. (Confidential project)
University of Reading​

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

2020-Present

Research Fellow at McGuffin Lab, University of Reading, UK, working on a BBSRC-funded
project to enhance the IntFOLD server for 3D protein model prediction. As the main developer, I
have led the refinement of protein 3D structures, prediction of protein-ligand interactions, and
ensemble prediction, with a focus on improving model quality assessment, structural refinement,
ligand binding site prediction, disordered region identification, and protein-protein interaction
analysis.
Selected Achievement
Adapting ReFOLD4 to refine 3D predictions beyond AlphaFold2 accuracy, integrating local
quality estimation and MD simulations, resulting in a recent publication. Contributing to
MultiFOLD protocol development, achieving top rankings in CASP15.
In CASP16, I led the development of FunFOLD5, surpassing the capabilities of the AlphaFold3
server method in protein-ligand interaction prediction. FunFOLD5 efficiently utilizes blind docking
and template-based docking methods to facilitate drug design, providing alternative poses, global
scores, and accurate affinity predictions. This advancement addresses the specific limitations
observed in AlphaFold3's approach to these critical aspects of protein-ligand interactions.
Education
University of Reading (2017-2021)
PhD
The research titled 'The Molecular Dynamics Based Refinement of the Predicted 3D models using
different restraint strategies'. Supervisor: Professor Liam McGuffin, Biological Sciences,
University of Reading.
The accuracy of predicted models is crucial for various biological applications, including drug
design, protein docking, and protein function prediction. Improving the quality of predicted models
refers to the refinement of the models, and the refinement of predicted models aims at bringing
them closer to the native structure. In this study, our primary objective is to develop a refinement

protocol based on molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. By employing different restraint
strategies to guide the MD-based refinements, we aim to achieve higher accuracy in the refined
models, ultimately bringing them closer to the native structure.
MD-based refinement protocols were also used to improve the local quality of the protein-ligand
binding site predictions in addition to the global accuracy.
Selected Achievements
Published a comprehensive review of the field in an invited special issue and a result paper as a
book chapter, and co-authored two papers.
ReFOLD2 which was developed during the research, ranked among the top 10 refinement methods
according to cumulative GDT-TS score in CASP13.
ReFOLD3 which was also developed during my PhD ranked among the top 5 refinement methods
according to cumulative GDT-TS score in CASP13 for the highly accurate predictions which is
difficult targets for the refinement category. Its server application was published in NAR Web
Server Issue and it is live at and it has been the top refinement server application in CASP14.
https://www.reading.ac.uk/bioinf/ReFOLD/ReFOLD3_form.html.
Yildiz Technical University (2012 –2014)​
MSc in Bioengineering
The research titled ‘In Silico Optimization of Zinc Binding Proteins for Biosensor Applications
In our research, we focused on using zinc binding peptides and attempted to increase their affinity
for zinc ions by mutating single residues with the 20 standard amino acids. Through targeted
mutagenesis, we systematically introduced substitutions in individual amino acid residues and
assessed their impact on zinc binding. Our goal was to identify specific mutations that could
enhance the interaction between the peptides and zinc ions. By conducting binding assays and
structural studies, we aimed to uncover amino acid substitutions that would lead to a significant
increase in zinc ion affinity. The findings from this research have the potential to inform the design
of zinc binding peptides with improved properties, benefiting fields such as bioinorganic chemistry
and molecular biology.
. Supervisor: Assistant Professor Gundog Yucesan and Assistant Professor Alper Yilmaz
GPA: 3.86 /4.00
Trakya University (2011-2013)
MSc in Physics
The dissertation titled ‘GaAs/GaAlAs Quantum Well’ Supervisor: Professor Hasan Akbas.GPA:
67/100
Trakya University (2007-2011)
BSc in Physics
Modules included Classical Mechanics & Relativity and the Quantum Mechanics and its
Applications.​ GPA: 2.78/4.00​
Publications
Google Scholar H-index: 9 Total Citations :469
●​ Adiyaman, R., Edmunds, N. S., Genc, A. G., Alharbi, S. M. A., & McGuffin, L. J. (2023).
Improvement of protein tertiary and quaternary structure predictions using the ReFOLD
refinement method and the AlphaFold2 recycling process. Bioinformatics Advances (Total
citations :19)
●​ Adiyaman, R., & McGuffin, L. J. (2023). Using local protein model quality estimates to
guide a molecular dynamics-based refinement strategy. In Homology Modeling: Methods
and Protocols (pp. 119-140). Springer US. (Total citations :1)
●​ Adiyaman, R., & McGuffin, L. J. (2021). ReFOLD3: refinement of 3D protein models with
gradual restraints based on predicted local quality and residue contacts. Nucleic Acids
Research, 49(W1). (Total citations :22)

●​ Adiyaman, R., & McGuffin, L. J. (2019). Methods for the Refinement of Protein Structure
3D Models. International Journal of Molecular Sciences, 20(9), 2301. (Total citations :80)
●​ Taylor, K. A., Elgheznawy, A., Adiyaman, R., Horn, T. L., Parkes, S., Hughes, C. E.,
McGuffin, L. J., & Gibbins, J. M. (2025). Inter-platelet communication driving thrombus
formation is regulated by extracellular calpain-1 cleavage of connexin 62. Haematologica,
110(8), 1822–1833. https://doi.org/10.3324/haematol.2024.286466
●​ McGuffin, L. J., Alhaddad, S. N., Behzadi, B., Edmunds, N. S., Genc, A. G., & Adiyaman,
R. (2025). Prediction and quality assessment of protein quaternary structure models using
the MultiFOLD2 and ModFOLDdock2 servers . Nucleic Acids Research, gkaf336.
●​ Fadini, A., Adiyaman, R., Alhaddad, S. N., et al. (2025). Highlights of model quality
assessment in CASP16. Proteins: Structure, Function, and Bioinformatics, 1–16.
https://doi.org/10.1002/prot.70035
●​ McGuffin, L. J., Edmunds, N. S., Genc, A. G., Alharbi, S. M. A., Salehe, B. R., &
Adiyaman, R. (2023). Prediction of protein structures, functions and interactions using the
IntFOLD7, MultiFOLD and ModFOLDdock servers. Nucleic Acids Research, 51(W1),
W274-W280. (Total citations :67)
●​ Edmunds, N. S., Alharbi, S. M. A., Genc, A. G., Adiyaman, R., & McGuffin, L. J. (2023).
Estimation of model accuracy in CASP15 using the ModFOLDdock server. Proteins:
Structure, Function, and Bioinformatics. (Total citations :20)
●​ McGuffin, L. J., Adiyaman, R., Maghrabi, A. H. A., Shuid, A. N., Brackenridge, D. A.,
Nealon, J. O., & Philomina, L. S. (2019). IntFOLD: An integrated web resource for
high-performance protein structure and function prediction. Nucleic Acids Research.
(Total citations :145)
●​ McGuffin, L. J., Aldowsari, F. M. F., Alharbi, S. M. A., & Adiyaman, R. (2021).
ModFOLD8: Accurate global and local quality estimates for 3D protein models. Nucleic
Acids Research. (Total citations :78)
●​ Sahli, K. A., Flora, G. D., Sasikumar, P., Maghrabi, A. H., Holbrook, L. M., AlOuda, S. K.,
Elgheznawy, A., Sage, T., Stainer, A. R., Adiyaman, R., & AboHassan, M. (2021).
Structural, functional, and mechanistic insights uncover the fundamental role of orphan
connexin-62 in platelets. Blood, 137(6), 830-843. (Total citations :12)
●​ Kryshtafovych, A., Moult, J., Billings, W. M., Della Corte, D., Fidelis, K., Kwon, S.,
Olechnovič, K., Seok, C., Venclovas, Č., Won, J., & CASP-COVID participants
(Adiyaman, R.). (2021). Modelling SARS‐CoV‐2 proteins in the CASP‐commons
experiment. Proteins: Structure, Function, and Bioinformatics, 89(12), 1987-1996. (Total
citations :22)
●​ Yucesan, G., Yilmaz, A., & Adiyaman, R. (2014). Design and synthesis of small peptide
sequences to detect concentrations of free transition metal ions. In Abstracts of Papers of
the American Chemical Society, 247. Washington, DC: American Chemical Society.
Research skills
●​ Using Molecular Dynamics Simulations
●​ Analysis of data by R, python scripts, Shell scripting
●​ Application of Bioinformatics Tools( BLAST, NCBI, EMBOSS, Rosetta, SWISS-MODEL,
Modeller, HHpred, PyMol, Chimera)
●​ Application of Machine Learning Tools (scikit-learn, TensorFlow , PyTorch )
●​ Using Cloud Services (AWS, MMM Hub Young Server-UCL)
●​ Protein ligand interactions (blind and redocking using Vina, gnina, SwissDock, DiffDock,
Rosetta software family)
Conferences and presentations
Oral
●​ Adıyaman, R., Yılmaz, A., Yücesan, G., (2014). Design of metal ions binding small
peptides, 1. National Biosensor Congress, Tekirdag, Turkey

●​ Recep Adiyaman ‘Molecular Dynamics Based Refinement of Protein Models with the
Guidance of Local Quality Assessment’, University of Reading Biological Sciences
Symposium, Reading, The UK
●​ Recep Adıyaman, Liam James McGuffin ‘ ReFOLD4 for the refinement of the
AlphaFOLD2 predictions’, ISMB 2023 - (3D-SIG)
●​
Poster
●​ Recep Adıyaman, Liam James McGuffin ‘ ReFOLD2’, 13th Community Wide Experiment
on the Critical Assessment of Techniques for Protein Structure Prediction, Cancun, Mexico
2018
●​ Recep Adıyaman, Liam James McGuffin ‘ The refinement of theoretical 3D models of
proteins using the ReFOLD3 web server’, ISMB 2021 - (3D-SIG)
●​ ReFOLD3: refinement of 3D protein models with gradual restraints based on predicted
local quality and residue contacts. 14th Community Wide Experiment on the Critical
Assessment of Techniques for Protein Structure Prediction, Virtual due to COVID
pandemic
Employment
Teaching assistant, Reading (2016-2020)
●​ Demonstrating in Bioinformatics practical of Molecular and Genetics and Introduction to
Bioinformatics Modules. The practical included the application of the bioinformatics tools
such as BLAST, PDB, CATH, PDBsum and PyMol. Around 150 students attended the
practicals and the fundamentals of the tools were introduced to them.
Research Associate, Reading (2020-present)
●​ Working on the further improvement of the IntFOLD server for the prediction of protein
3D models, and their global and local assessment , refinement stages, protein ligand binding
site and disordered region predictions.
References
Professor Liam McGuffin, School of Biological Sciences, The University of Reading,
Whiteknights, PO Box 221 ,Reading RG6 6AS UK, l.j.mcguffin@reading.ac.uk
Assist.Prof.Dr. Alper YILMAZ, Yildiz Technical University Bioengineering Department, YTU
Bioengineering Department, Room KM-A129, Esenler, Istanbul, Turkey, alperyilmaz@gmail.com

